# MBE_data_2021
## Alignment and phylogenetic analysis of the CDS, promoter and intron data
There are seven exons and six introns in the TRIM72 gene (supplementary fig. S1). We retrieved the CDS and promoter region of TRIM72 for 13 primate or 29 mammal species from GenBank or Ensembl. We retrieved the intron sequences from 13 primate species only, as the sequences from different mammals are too divergent for the alignment to be reliable. Many insertions/deletions were found in the CDS of squirrel monkey and pigtail macaque, apparently because the CDS was based on predictions with inaccurate splicing sites and annotation errors. Thus, we downloaded the heart or skeletal muscle RNA-seq data for those species (supplementary table S2), and aligned the raw reads to the TRIM72 gene of each species and then assembled the CDS based on the aligned RNA-seq reads. All 13 primate species had 1434 nucleotides (477 codons), with no indels in the CDS alignment. 
Maximum likelihood trees inferred using the exon, intron and the promoter sequence alignments were largely consistent with well-accepted mammalian phylogenies. 

We focus on evolutionary rates rather than the species tree topology, and thus used the accepted species tree as given in our analysis. We reconstructed ancestral sequences for the promoter under the HKY+gama5 model (Yang, et al. 1995), using the BASEML program in the PAML package (Yang 2007). We applied local-clock models (Yoder and Yang 2000) implemented in BASEML to the promoter and intron alignments for the 13 primate species (fig. 3). The models allow us to estimate relative rates for branches on the tree while accommodating well-known violation of the molecular clock, such as the Hominoid slowdown. We tested the null hypothesis that the promoter and the intron rates for the branch ancestral to Old World Monkeys are reduced by the same amount, in effect using the introns as reference to test for possible rate acceleration in the promoter.  
